I took three data heavy slides, one from McKinsey, one from Bain, and one from BCG to see if I could make them even better. In this video, I'm going to walk through each of the changes that I made and show you the final result coming up Everybody. My name is Paul, and I'm an instructor at Analyst Academy, where we teach people and teams how to build better presentations based on best practices from the consulting industry. So if that sounds like something you're interested in, make sure you check out our courses at the Analyst Academy dot com. A quick note before we get started. All of the slides that I use today are from publicly available sources. So if you're interested in checking out the original slide or the original report, make sure you check those out in the links down below. There you can also find a direct link to our data visualization course where you can essentially learn to do exactly what I'm doing in this video today. All right. This first slide is a slide from BCG Title says Industries with lowest future work readiness have highest share of deaths, less workers. So they have a combination chart here, which in this case is a line chart combined with column chart. They're trying to show the data in the same space. And usually you do that when the data is in some way related to each other, as in this case. So the line chart shows the future of work readiness by industry. So, for example, insurance on the scale from this line to this line, insurance is about right here. And they kind of give a little bit of detail into their methodology in the footnotes, but it's not a whole lot of information. And then the other thing that they're showing is a lot more straightforward, which is the share of desk list workers, and that's indicated by this column chart down here. So professional services has 15% of people working desk lists. So there's a few major things about this chart that I don't really like, but there's actually a lot of things about the chart that I do like. One thing, for example, is I like that they've removed anything of a chart that isn't necessary. So in this case, for example, for the share of deaths list workers, they've got the values right in the columns itself. So to put an axis on this chart right here would just add to the distraction. Another thing they've done really well is to draw attention to the things on the chart that matter the most when you're building your chart. The goal is you want to simplify it as much as possible and then draw attention to the parts of the chart that are going to illustrate your message. This right here is a textbook example of that. They've put a box around this section to indicate which industries are leaders and another box to show which industries are laggards. And again, this helps me focus my attention on the parts of this chart that matter the most. My main gripe with this slide is that they decided to use a combination chart, and combination charts can be great. It's a great place to show two different data sets in the same space, especially when one of those data sets provides context for the other. But in this case, they're trying to use a combination chart to show the relationship between two datasets. In other words, when one does this, the other one does this. And for that, a scatterplot is usually a much better choice. The other thing is, I think this line right here is a little bit misleading. So line charts are usually pretty good when you're trying to show trends or patterns in the data. That's because unlike a column or a bar chart, that shows individual separate data points, this connects them all together. So it's a lot easier for the audience to see the trend or the pattern or what have you. So when I look at this, my brain naturally wants to find that pattern, which is a pattern of growth. But that's obviously a problem because this isn't a pattern of growth. They've just sorted this data from low to high. But back to my other point. A scatterplot is going to be a much better choice here because we can see the relationship instead of relying on how big this gap is or how small this gap is. We'll be able to plot these against two different axes. So here we have the exact same data only plotted along our two axes. And as you can tell, there's a general relationship. In other words, if we read the title again, industries with lower future work readiness have higher share of deaths, less workers. You can see that that is indeed correct. In other words, when future of work readiness tends to be low, then share of deaths, less workers tends to be high, which is this section right here. So now that we've kind of stripped this down, we've chosen the right chart. It's time to put a little bit more focus on what we want our audience to see. So now we have our leaders and our laggards. Laggards, again, people with low future work readiness and high percentage of deaths, less workers. And then the leaders with high future work readiness, but low percentage of deaths, less workers. Well, now I think there's maybe too much going on. So let's simplify it even more. Draw attention away from the things that don't matter as much and draw attention to things that do matter more. In this case, the title is about this section right here. It's not about this section. It's not about these gaps. So that's what we want to emphasize. So by keeping this kind of gray section right here and moving these to the corners, we put an emphasis on that by de-emphasizing everything else. So if you compare this with our original slide, my paint, it looks a whole lot better. The chart clearly emphasizes the message It puts attention on things that matter and takes it away from the things that don't matter. All right. This next slide is from McKinsey, and it's about Mexico's chemical industry. Title says Mexico has access to a large volume of available plastic waste feedstock. So the chart is a 100% stacked bar chart, and it's meant to show the plastic waste end of life management for these different countries. And obviously, the emphasis here is on Mexico. So looking at the legend, you can see these four different options for what happens to plastic waste in these different countries. When I first looked at this chart, I was a little bit confused because the title talks about available plastic waste feedstock, but I wasn't sure which sections of these bars represent available plastic waste feedstock. So as it these three these two is just landfill it's just recycling. And the reason why I was confused is because of the color scheme. So McKinsey has a beautiful color scheme where I think someone who works at McKinsey might have to correct me, but I think this black color is their kind of primary first color. And then it's always accented with this blue color. And then you've got a few other blues in there. So what they're trying to show is that these two bars matter and then all these other ones like this and these two and whatever, they're great out to kind of be de-emphasized. And I think they have the right intentions here. But the problem is black is a confusing color on a chart because it's not really a background color as much as you might think it is. It does still stand out, but it's also not really a foreground color either. It's kind of this in-between. So when they put it in this bar, chart right here, it's hard for me to know, are they emphasizing this whole section or is it just this blue section? Or is it something else? So I think that's the first thing to fix about this chart. I think that can be made a lot more clear. So what I did is I just de-emphasize these grays a little bit. It's technically the same color. I just added some opacity to it to make it make these two bars or these two categories stand out just a little bit more. The obvious downside to this is that might not technically fit with their color scheme, but in my opinion, this emphasizes the message a whole lot better and so needs to be done. Next thing I think that needs to be done with this slide is to emphasize the title just a little bit more, especially when you have other texts on the slide that's the same color and pretty close and size. So that's the next thing I did was to emphasize this title just a little bit more. Now, when people look at this slide, they're going to hopefully read the title first, and that'll give them context for the rest of the data on this slide. The other thing I did here was to add these percent signs right here. I know I didn't do it throughout the whole chart, but I think right here adding these percent signs, even if that's against McKinsey's formatting guidelines, I think it makes this a lot more clear because this is a pretty important section right here. This capture about plastic weights and put percentages to these helps me associate it with this section a lot more. So as the slide is right now, I think it's pretty good. There's a nice connection between the title and what's emphasized with the colors. But I think the message could be emphasized just a little bit more. So what I did was I move this legend down to the bottom but made it just a little bit bigger and then added this section right here that clearly explains. So there's no confusion for people like me who didn't understand which part is talking about the cap. Sharable plastic waste. And that again connects with the title. So in my opinion, this is a whole lot more clear, but we could probably, if we wanted to take it one step further and just emphasize this just a little bit more. So I made it read. That's more of a personal preference, but to me, this makes it a lot more clear and again, connects with the title pretty well. So if you compare this with the original version, we're drawing attention away from the parts of the chart that don't matter, drawing attention to the parts of the chart that do matter the most and trying to make the connection with the title just a little bit more clear. All right. This is a slide from Bain about the global private equity market. Title says deal value search globally, but the biggest increases came in North America as investors flocked to tech sectors concentrated in the U.S.. And this is a really, really good looking slide. You got three combination charts that show two separate things. They show quarterly buyout deal value represented by these gray columns right here. And they also show the deal count represented by this red line. And it's broken out into North America, Europe, Asia Pacific. One thing that Bain consistently does really well is they de-emphasize the parts of their chart that don't matter and really put into focus the parts of the chart that do matter. So it took me a while of really staring at this slide to figure out what I could do to improve it. And I was reading the title and I noticed a few things in the title that kind of tipped me off to how this could be improved. So the title should give you an indication for what you should focus on in your chart or in your slide here. There's three things that I feel like they don't really emphasize that much. The first deal value remember what I said earlier about emphasizing things that matter and de-emphasizing things that don't matter. In this chart, they're emphasizing the count by using a red line that stands in contrast to the gray line. They're not emphasizing the actual deal value. The second thing is they talk about big increases Once again, line charts are good for showing patterns, and one of those patterns can be an increase over time. If this message said something about Q for 2021 being better than Q three, then a column chart would be great for that because you can compare the lengths of the columns really easily. It emphasizes that message, but here they're talking about a change. They're trying to say that there's an increase right here that doesn't really get emphasized with a column chart. It'd be much better with a line chart. And then the last thing is this focus on North America. They do a pretty good job of separating North America out, but it's kind of hard to compare North America with Europe and Asia Pacific. So it's hard to really see the relevant relative change between those three areas. So one way we can solve this is by taking the most important data deal value and putting that into its own line chart along with these other two regions. So I know this changes the chart quite a bit. But to me, this puts a much bigger emphasis on the three things that we talked about. First of all, this chart is all about deal value. Secondly, this biggest increase is really gets emphasized with this line right here. And then lastly, the focus on North America is very clear because you can compare North America with Europe and with Asia Pacific By the way, one just side note here. Notice how I put these right next to the line themselves instead of in a legend. It's a lot more clear. It's easier to reference the data. And if you can color them the same color as your lines, then again, that's going to make it that much more easy for the audience. So the obvious missing piece here is in the deal count. And again, that provides context for the information. It doesn't necessarily need to be emphasized, but it could be helpful to know. So I guess that's kind of the drawback of using the line chart. But one way around that is to include the information below the chart down here. So that's what I did. I moved this chart up and added some more information. But there's a couple more things that I did to try and make this even just a little bit more clear. First thing was to make the connection between this quarterly buyout deal value and deal just a little bit more strong. Again, I'm not trying to show the visual relationship here. We did away with that by deleting the combination charts and putting a line chart here. But I do want to show some connection. So the way I did that was to make the colors the same. And then lastly, I just kind of scrunch this table down a little bit. So what I did was just try to de-emphasize things that don't matter, like these footnotes down here and kind of scrunched the table a little bit to really put the focus on this chart and particularly this section of the chart, because again, that's what they're trying to emphasize based on what they put in the title. So if you compare this with the original version, to me, this emphasizes the message a whole lot better. But of course, that comes at a cost. I don't think this is necessarily as visually appealing and you lose some of the information around deal count. But again, I think that cost is worth it. And I think this is a much better slide. All right. That's going to do it for today's video. I hope you found it helpful. Let me know your thoughts down in the comments. I love seeing the engagement on these videos and I'd love to hear your opinions. So please keep them coming. If you're interested in learning more on topics of data visualization, presentation design, or just PowerPoint speed and efficiency, make sure you check out our courses at the Animals Academy dot com Thanks for watching and.