Title: 800% faster terminal workflow for vim
Video ID: noJddjBQ51w
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=noJddjBQ51w

Hi. All right, enough wasting time.
Let's get right into it. You can
actually pause Vim instead of quitting
it. You can actually pause any Unix
process for that matter. So, here's how
you do it. Let's say you're in Vim and
you have a project file open like this
Python file for this project that I've
been working on with dogs and people. If
you want to quit this, pretty easy. You
can just Qbang WQ. If you want to pause
the file from normal mode, you can hit
Ctrl Z. And you can see zish will say
suspended mim. If you're in another
shell like fish for some reason,
sometimes it just won't say that, but
it's this. It'll it'll work the same
way. So, now that you're here, you've
got your shell. You can do whatever you
want. LS, whatever. You can now jump
back in by hitting FG, which stands for
foreground. It'll bring it back. And
this will work for anything. So for
instance like if you have an npm server
npm ordev and you want to just like get
rid of this process because you're
looking at the output somewhere else
like your browser control Z and then
it's suspended but it's still running.
So if I click on this it'll open up
whatever it's taking a sec but you get
the idea.
So the reason this is so overpowered I
think is because it lets you work with
terminals in Vim very easily compared to
any other approach. There's a bunch of
different ways you could do that. The
order would go like this. The worst is
using your terminal emulator like
creating a new window like that or a new
tab. That's just like bad because it's
not you can't really take that with you
in SSH and that's something I value a
lot in workflow even if you're not like
a DevOps engineer I it it also just
clutters up your screen. Next approach
is T-Mox which is better because you can
take that with you most of the time into
a remote server. Sometimes they won't
have it installed and that's a little
annoying. So that's why T-Mox isn't
quite as good as this. And then there's
like the term command within Vim, which
is almost as good, but I feel like term
sometimes it's a little clunky to switch
back and forth between. You have to like
use window controls and they're fine.
And you can get the the term plugins and
whatnot. But I think this is the most
native and it's the most quick. You just
boom, Vim is quit. Now I can cd around
whatever list ping
Google, you know, just do whatever you
want. And just like that, FG, boom, back
in Neoim. And I think it's just it's
native, like you can carry it with you
wherever you have Vim. And so often I'm
on a server and I don't have access to
T-Mox or any other workflow stuff, and I
just want to leave Vim, do like three
commands, and come back in. And it's
just the cleanest way. It's one keyboard
shortcut, and then FG to jump back in.
Took me a long time to figure this out
for some reason. I always knew that
control Z like quit certain processes,
but I don't know why I never figured out
I could do it on Vim. Um, but yeah,
there you

