Title: how I handled vim + alternate keyboard layout
Video ID: vCpyVKwTtNU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vCpyVKwTtNU

Something I get asked a lot is if you
use Vim and an alternate keyboard
layout, aren't all the muscle memories
like all messed up because of that and
especially the arrow keys. And I faced
the exact same problem when I switched.
At first I was like, "Oh my I'm
it's it's over for my Vim career, you
know. Um, so I tried to remap things,
but immediately you're going to face a
bunch of problems doing that. The first
one is either you just remap the arrow
keys and then you have to like map other
keys to fill that gap. You know what I
mean? If you map
HJKL like or the keys you need for say
in comac dh it's neio and you have to
map those away so that you can put hjk
back there. You have to put neio back in
those places. So that's not terrible.
That's four remaps. But if you don't
want to do that you're going to have to
remap more things and not close the
loop. Um, and then I don't really love
that because even if you're just
remapping four things, it's like it's
just kind of different than a fully like
no config changes to Vims. It's not
terrible, right? It's just like now
every time I SSH into something, I'm
going to need to change that or my
muscle memory will be bad. And I
currently haven't really found a good
workflow for bringing over my local DOD
files. like I should just have one but
it's like sometimes they don't have Vim
installed or it's like an older version
of Vim or so you just need it's not
terrible you just need like the Vim
script remaps but I just don't want to
deal with that. So, the other option is
you just suck it up. And that's what I
did. At first, I was like, there's no
way. That's they've got to be joking,
right? Um, and people say, "Well, you'll
use the other motions more." And I
didn't really buy that that much, but I
just kind of did it. And actually, it's
really I I've got to say, I now prefer
the placement of the Vim keys in
Colemarmac. um as crazy as it sounds.
But the reason is the F and J keys are
actually kind of in intuitive places and
and the the H and and K or H and L,
they're kind of like up and down from
each other in opposite places. So you
like you you go up to go down and vice
versa. Um but actually when they're
moved away, I found that it's it's more
annoying to use those. So, I started to
use other motions more like people are
actually saying, and it really actually
wasn't that bad. And now I just I don't
have this extra annoying level of
configuration. It's not a huge deal if
you want to do that. I know people like
Ben Valick, I think, have done that.
Completely valid remap, and it's not
that big of an ass to switch over those
lines, but for me, I just wanted like no
abstraction between them. I wanted just
type on my keyboard layout and just no
vim. Um, and yeah, it's uh it just got
to a point where I relearned it. I got
used to it. It was It's much much easier
to break ground that you've already
covered um than to break it for the
first time. So, because I knew all the
Vim motions, yeah, they were moved
around a little bit, but it's still like
you've got the you've got them in your
head. You know what I mean? You're like
N. Oh, N for next. So, I'm just going to
hit the N key. It doesn't matter that
it's in a different place. Whereas if
you tried to force the certy layout of
Vim, then you'd be like and for or or
it's weird because now the keys are like
misaligned from the Vim semantic
meanings. You know what I
mean? Whereas whereas you can kind of
keep them in your head if you just don't
remap. Hopefully that made sense. Um if
it didn't, just go back and rewatch that
and think about what I was saying really
hard. Um, but yeah, that's pretty much
my two cents on that issue. Feel free to
disagree. I'm sure that's it's not like
the only valid way to do it, but um
that's what I did. It worked pretty
well. Um, and yeah, I I think just when
you hear that advice initially to just
like suck it up and deal with it, it
seems like crushing, but it's really not
as bad as it sounds. So, I would just
power through it. It'll take you maybe a
day to get the muscle memory back. the
arrow keys. They're a little It feels
bad at first, but you'll get used to
them being there.

