Title: How I would learn vim if I had to start over (in 2025)
Video ID: 8K7jmnAHwjk
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8K7jmnAHwjk

If I had to start again with my Vim
journey, I would not jump right into the
command line version of Vim. That's kind
of like the equivalent of sawing off
your leg. It'll be very painful and slow
and bloody, and at the end, you will be
a lot more flexible cuz your leg will be
detached, but it'll just be like not
worth all the agony. What I would do
instead is use VS Code or Intelligj and
enable their Vim settings, like their
Vim bindings, and then learn the basic
like movements. um you can just do that
from like a tutorial on YouTube and
there's also the Vimtutor command which
is solid but that that does take you
into the command line version which is a
little scary for some people. So once
you have the basic motions which are a
lot easier than most people think then I
would just sit with that for like a
month in your editor and maybe you can
start to learn more advanced motions. I
would learn things that really like
speed up your workflow because that'll
encourage you to use Vim. Like CIW, if
you don't know what that does, just give
it a try later. Um, that was a banger
that convinced me to keep going on my
Vim journey. So, once you've done that
for a couple of months, you probably
still are hankering to be the next level
of Chad and move on to the CLI version
of
Vim. And what I would do there is pick
Neoim. There's a whole weird like
controversy. Not really controversy, but
just go with neovim over vim. Um, and
there's these predefined configurations
called vim distros. The most popular one
is lazy vim. There's also astro vim and
lunar vim. I personally would not use
one of those. Some people like it. If
you don't like configuring anything and
you just want all these defaults for
you, it's a good way to kind of skip
over some learning. But the problem is
you won't fully know how to use it
without like completely reading the
docs. I think it's better to start off
following a tutorial on setting up your
own config because then you'll have
built each part of the process yourself
and you'll know all the keybinds for it
and like why you're installing these
certain plugins to get the features that
other IDE have like um language
completion and formatting and switching
between files quickly and file trees and
all that stuff you have in the normal
IDE. So yeah, make sure you make your
own config because it'll just it'll pay
off tremendously in the long run. And
then optionally, the final step is you
can spend years tweaking your config and
watching tutorials or you can kind of
just learn 80% of what Vim has to offer
and then just go and focus on the code.
And both paths are totally valid and
legitimate. I personally think I went
too far into the Vim enthusiasm side and
I know too much about it and too much
about configuring it. Um because the
truth is it's only a small amount of the
community of developers that are like
that into Vim and you're better off
programming things that are useful to
the average person. But that's just my
two cents. Maybe you want to fully go
off the deep end and maybe that's the uh
the better option there. Um, that's
about it. I would say the motions are
the most important thing. People
underestimate how easy they are and
overestimate how difficult the rest of
Vim is. And difficult, I just mean like
it's hard to switch PES and Windows and
learn like the command line stuff and
integrations and all these Unix tools
and flags. And compared to the motions
at least, that stuff is all totally
doable. It's just when you boot up like
the Matrix and you see all this like
Unicode nonsense, it is very
intimidating and trying to edit multiple
files on a big project where you're
switching back and forth and you need
like a server running. It's just like
you wouldn't even know how to begin at
all if you just jumped right into
Vim. Um, but that stuff if you build
your own config, it'll all come pretty
naturally to you. Also, watch like a
solid amount of Vim content. Don't go
over the top, but watch enough that you
understand how to do all the most
important things. There's plenty of
great YouTubers on it. Um, so yeah,
that's uh that's how I do it. Hopefully
you enjoyed.

