Title: My keyboard journey
Video ID: FeGa7JfpKuE
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FeGa7JfpKuE

Late in high school, I just randomly
decided I was going to learn an
alternative keyboard layout. Um, and I
just chose Colmac DH just because that's
the kind of thing I was doing with my
life at the time. Um, which is
unfortunate, but it paid off
greatly. A lot of people, they know that
quarterty is terrible. It's like
designed for a typewriter designed to
slow you down and that there are newer
layouts that have the the good keys in
the good places and they think, "Oh,
it'll make me a lot faster." there. And
there's arguments like against it, too.
Like, um, oh, but what if I want to use
someone else's keyboard and it's not
like set up like that. I've found that
it's kind of different than you think
it'll be. It doesn't make you a ton
faster, actually. Um, but what it does
do is make every word feel absolutely
creamy to type. Um, like the first time
you start learning it and you go to
colmacclub.com or or whatever, um, every
word is just like, "Oh my god, this just
feels right. This feels like the
universe and the stars and everything
have aligned to make this typing
experience what it is. It's just it's so
incredibly nice. Every word, oh, it may
not be the fastest. Well, it's not slow.
It's just like not much faster than
certy. everything you type is just right
where it should be. Every letter is like
right in the place that it should be.
Um, and after a while, you'll kind of
just get used to it and it'll be your
new normal. Maybe you're getting like
slightly less chance of carpal tunnel
over the uh 50 years you're in the
workforce. Hopefully less if you have a
successful career. Um, but yeah, I just
wanted to say it's not really about
speed. It's just about u the creaminess
of it. And you can only really
understand that until you try it. It's
like Vim. Um, it does take a little bit.
It'll slow your typing down, but I think
it's worth it. I got my gym bro, who is
an art history major. He literally has
he'll never write a line of code in his
life. Um, unless he's held at gunpoint
or something, but I got him to do it.
Um, he's a very philosophical guy, too.
Um, and he really enjoyed it. So, there
you go. And normie can do it just for
the uh the heck of it. If you want to do
it, I would suggest there's a few
different resources. I mentioned
earlier, Colemarmac Club, that's a um
that's something that'll like gradually
introduce you to more and more of the
layout. That's how I initially started
practicing. And then Monkey Type, every
typist, probably a lot of programmers
know about this website, too. It's just
like a good typing practice website. You
can put it on quote mode or just like
big chunks of text mode. And what I
would do is I listen to like a radio
drama or audio book. Um, so I was kind
of tuning out like the actual like I
wasn't reading to myself what the quotes
were and I'd practice for like an hour a
day and it's not unproductive cuz you're
like listening to an audiobook or
something. Um, and you get actually up
to speed pretty quick and then
everything feels nice, but then then
you've got to deal with a huge
ramification, which is your Vim is now
all up. Um, I tried remapping it
at first, but what you've got to do is
just relearn. The one big hit is that
the arrow keys, HDKL, are moved all
around, but other than that, it's fine.
And you just you just start using non-
arrow key motions, which are faster
anyway. So, that's the that's the big
takeaway for Vim users. I wouldn't freak
out at first if it completely changes
your Vim experience. And if you don't
know what Vim is, you're you're fine. I
would just do it. My uh my keyboard is a
little bit better than yours. That's all
there is to it.

