Title: Programming languages explained in terms of vim.
Video ID: XqpU1zqwuBc
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XqpU1zqwuBc

C is this language that they use to
write Vim and Neovim. It's very
low-level and fast, so it makes both
editors a great experience. I don't
really think it's used for anything else
practical, but it has a great reputation
just because of how much work it's done
for the Vim editor. Next up is Lua and
Vimcript. These are both configuration
languages for Vim. We started off kind
of weekly with Vimcript, unfortunately,
but it did have the upside of scaring
off a lot of beginners. But now that we
have Lua as the configuration language,
which is a lot less weird and arcane,
you can actually write pretty
understandable plugins and code. Lua
also has this great data type called the
table which is just OP for
configuration. I think that's why they
used it. It's also beginner friendly.
Just a great language overall. It's
dynamically typed, which is a little bit
unfortunate, but it has like a type hint
thing. Um, so maybe we'll get a Lua
TypeScript disaster in the near future.
Then we have JavaScript and React and
other web frameworks. These are usually
used to um render blogs and websites
which people use to discuss Vim and the
development of Vim. Pretty important to
the ecosystem overall. I'd say we have
Swift and Ruby. Swift is this
interesting language is written for this
operating system that can wrap around
and run an instance of Vim and Ruby is
used to install Vim on that operating
system. Then we have French. A lot like
English, French is used to talk about
Vim and condescendingly say things about
other people's editors like VS Code.
Then we have Markdown. Markdown is
actually used all over the web, also for
blogs about Vim, but also to write
install instructions for your Neoim
plugins. Then we have Rust. Rust is a
tool to rewrite Vim um with slightly
different movement order. This is
actually an attempt by the cult of Emacs
to pull people away from Vim. That's why
you see people so aggressively
recruiting for editors like Zed and
Helix. Hasll is a super impractical
language that's used by hardcore flexers
when using Vim isn't enough to show that
you're a better programmer and you have
to seriously handicap yourself by having
a terrible package manager and really
weird integration and language features.
Latte is this language that goes
handinhand with Vim. It's used to write
PDFs and papers about productivity and
snippets um in Vim. It's also used for
certain blog sites where you can talk
about your workflow and notetaking using
Vim and Latte. It's kind of a
self-referential thing. Then we have
Python. This is a um a command built
into Vim. Some people use it for AI and
stuff, but it's pretty much just this
weird little shell interpreter that's
built into Vim by default. And I mean
Neo Vim. I don't think it was built into
the original until a little later.
There's also C++, which is kind of
similar to C. pretty much every language
I can think of that's remotely relevant
to Vim. But it's also possible I
completely missed one or two major ones
or four or five minor eight I don't know
whatever.

