Title: Teaching Vim to my non cs friend lol
Video ID: 3c-bVwOUYrA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3c-bVwOUYrA

This is my Polish friend Charlie. I'm
teaching him Vim today. He's kind of a a
normie philosophy major. He does use
colmac dh though, so he has that going
for him. You type vim into this command
line. Um, and then hit
enter. And then just to get some text to
work with, type like a
100 and then I this will put you in
what's called insert mode. And now you
can type whatever you
want. Okay. And then hit enter. And now
um hit escape which is caps lock or
escape. And you can see that it says
101. So that entered that a 100 times um
which is pretty awesome. Okay. So now
you're back in what's called normal mode
which gives you tons of keyboard
shortcuts. So if you hit K um nice
muscle memory. If you hit K that goes
up. If you hit that like a few times you
can scroll like that. If you hit J
you'll go down. And then if you hit L or
H, that'll take you back and forth like
arrow keys. So I know those things are
in like really random places in in
Colemarmac, but Oh, what did you do? If
you hit U, that'll undo
it. Already at oldest change. I undid
it. How did that even happen? Um, can
you hit control
R? Not command R. Control R. That's
That's
option. There we go. There we go. Okay.
So, or you can use the arrow keys to
scroll. Yeah.
Um, now hit
V, this, um, takes you into what's
called visual mode. So, if you hit J a
few times to scroll down. You can see
it'll start highlighting stuff. And that
actually lets you like select things.
Now, if you want to if you want to copy
them, you can hit Y, and that stands for
yank. And now if you hit P, that stands
for Oh, actually hit escape real quick
to go back to uh normal. Yeah. Now you
can hit P and it should That's a
B. That's an
F. There we go. That that pasted at some
point. I think if you if you hit capital
G, that'll take you all the way to the
bottom. You can see there's 143 lines.
Now you hit GG, that'll take you all the
way to the top of the file. Um, so
that's pretty cool. Let me think what
other Okay, hit capital V. That puts you
in line wise select mode. And then you
can see it says visual line at the
bottom. Now hit capital G. That'll take
you all the way to the bottom. And now
if you hit this um right thing, capital
it, it should indent everything. Whoa,
that's pretty cool, right? Um, let's
see. Another thing is hit escape. Okay.
And then J a few times to go down and
then W. This will go forward to the
word. And then hit Vap for visual around
paragraph. And that'll select
everything. And now hit that capital
colon. And then S and then slash and
then boob. And that'll select that. And
then you can hit another slash. And now
you can type anything you want and it'll
start replacing all of them. And then if
you hit
enter, boom, replaces on all of them.
That's pretty awesome, right? Um, so
this is this technology is pretty
lifechanging like once you learn it. Um,
oh, another thing is you see how like
it's it says you're on line 89, but then
it's going 1 2 3 4 5 up from that.
That's called relative line number and
it lets you like make jumps. So in Vim
any command you can prefix it with a
number. So if you type like eight and
then J, you'll jump eight lines down to
line 97. So that's um that's pretty
interesting. Another thing is I'm not
sure if it'll work in this file. Let me
try something. If you go equals and then
capital G, that'll fix the indentation
for the whole file. Um and there's just
like basically hundreds and hundreds of
these different motions to like move
word wise, linewise, all of that, find
and replace. you can get like very
complicated with documents and whatnot
and display things. Um, but let's try
real quick something kind of a little
bit convoluted and complicated. Okay, so
if you go if you go down two lines with
J. We're going to do what's called a
macro. This is what Vim is known for. So
hit
QW and you can see right here it's
recording into add W. So this is going
to save all your movements into a
register. So if you hit capital A,
that'll take you into insert mode and be
at the end of the line. So now if you
type like comma and then just type
something. Okay. And now hit
escape and then hit J to go down a line
and then hit press zero and that'll take
you to the start and then press Q and
that'll finish recording the macro. So
now to run this macro type like at the
at
symbol and then W and that'll run it
again. So now if you want to run it a
bunch of times you can prefix it with a
number. So you could say like 10 at
W or just however many you wanted and
then boom, it'll run it per linewise. So
that's kind of a ridiculous example, you
know, but you could do that in like a a
huge thing if you wanted like a very
complicated type scenario going on.
Um, that's probably enough Vim content.
That's like a solid six minutes. All
right.

