Title: This vim command is a Banger
Video ID: SNAMMWBHUPM
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SNAMMWBHUPM

A lot of you seem to really enjoy the
video about the normal command, so I
thought I'd make another one about
another underrated Vim command and maybe
even make this into a series if there's
interest. Um, so this one is about the
double bang exclamation mark exclamation
mark. And what it lets you do is run a
shell command and then insert the output
of it back into your buffer. So let me
jump in and show you some examples.
Typically what I use this for is when I
want to get the path of something on my
system like for instance the cargo
package manager if you're a Rust fan. So
in normal mode um I could type bang bang
and then it pulls up this
colonexclamation mark and then I can
type which
cargo and then you can see it inserts it
right in there. Um, another one you can
do sometimes is I mean I have a snippet
that does date
um like that, but if you wanted like a
Unix formatted date, you could do bang
bang date um and then you know pass in
any kind of formatting options you want
to be. And then another great case of it
is if you want to run uh some kind of
file and then pipe the output back into
the buffer. So, let's say that I've
got a little Python program, right?
Like, um, it's going to loop 10 times
and then it's going
to print
out an F string. And in that F string,
I'm actually going to have print and
then I and then so I'm going to print
out print. It's a little weird, I know,
um, but it is what it is. And then what
I can do is go bang bang and it takes me
into this oneshot shell mode. I'm gonna
go uh level down actually um so that I
don't overwrite this. And then
type python 3 and then instead of typing
up main.py, you can type percent sign
and that'll expand to the same thing.
And then hit enter. And it'll actually
insert the output of this program right
down here. It's kind of a weird example.
Um but I found myself doing this once in
a while. If I want to insert something
and I don't really want to mess around
with a macro or Vimcript, you can just
use Python to pipe it in. And you don't
have to be in the same file obviously.
Like I could open up another file, you
know, called test.py. And then in here,
I could type out Bang Bang Python 3
main.py. And then it would insert. I
don't know why it also inserted that
uh those those things. Maybe I
accidentally printed an extra. Oh,
because I have those print things at the
bottom. Yeah, that checks out. Um so
yeah, that's a pretty interesting use
case. There are a couple things to keep
in mind with this though. First one is I
don't know how to change this, but it'll
overwrite whatever lines you've got.
though. Then if I if I do colon dot
right there and like who am I with my um
cursor on it, it'll just write over it.
Um not ideal sometimes, but you can
always just delete entire word and put
it where you want it. Um yeah, I'm not
really using any crazy advanced shell
stuff here. Um, I'm not a Unix Chad
enough yet for that, but maybe some
people in the comments of this will have
some ideas about what to do with this.
You could set up crazy aliases and
stuff. I wonder actually if you can
output like a man page in here. Um, I do
bang bang man
um curl. Yeah, you can. It looks
horrible because it's a grath. Um, and
the it's kind of in a weird format, but
hey, if you wanted to. Um, but I I know
you could open man like man curl and
then it would display properly.
Um, but yeah, so hopefully you can do
something with that. Um

