Title: Vim Aesthetics
Video ID: _TqwxzWRDGA
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_TqwxzWRDGA

Happy 420 everyone. Today I have some
Vim tips for aesthetics, plugins, and
settings. The first one is Zen mode. You
can see I have some very complicated
TypeScript here. And you'll notice that
there are no borders or line numbers or
anything around my screen. It'll say
insert on the bottom, but other than
that, pretty much that's it in terms of
flashiness. And I have a key map set to
toggle this. So when I press leader U,
let me turn on key casting real quick.
leader U will
toggle zen mode and this is just very
nice if you want to display your your
code to someone. I don't really
personally use it to actually code
because the line numbers are pretty
helpful for me. Um and I think it just
looks kind of excessively minimal if
that's uh if that's even possible.
That's kind of an oxymoron. It's good
for presentation purposes. You can
configure it to basically get rid of all
the other jazz around your screen. So,
it's just it's just straight up clear
what you're um showing someone. Uh so,
next up is the border settings for my
completion and do cover. So, if I type
anything, you can see I have this window
that has this little rounded border
around it. And then the little popups
for info on these will also have rounded
borders. Similarly, if I press capital K
to get information on something, I guess
I can't on that. But yeah, this one,
it'll have that little box around it. Or
this, it'll also have that little box
around it. And that's opposed to the
default, which just doesn't have that
little rounded edge. And the way I got
that, you can check out my dot files on
GitHub, but I think it would be defined
in
lsp. Yeah. So here's the the floated for
diagnostic. Um you can just say border
rounded. I think that would
be yeah something like this. That's like
a language diagnostic problem. But for
the completion I think that's a little
lower down in
CMP. Let's
see. Maybe it's a little farther up.
It's been a while since I've messed with
this. Oh, here we go. Yeah. Um, in CMP
you can do setup and then window and
then say the border is rounded. It's no
scroll bar looks better. That kind of
brings me to the next thing which is my
config you probably noticed is not crazy
over the top aesthetic. Like some of
these people if you go on the subreddit
Unix porn um which is it's just how they
name like good-looking things on Reddit.
I don't know. But
um you can see these crazy configs.
People have like anime girls and like 20
different colors going in like five
splits. And if you're the type of guy
who like has Neoetch and you have like a
customized like prompt with Starship and
you're using some other shell like fish
and you have this crazy colorful thing.
Um I honestly think that's that's going
a bit too far aesthetically. Like think
about it like you're trying to impress a
girl. What's more impressive? Having
like a a kind of nice car like a Hellcat
maybe or like taking her on a really
nice vacation. The vacation might not be
like as um as in your face, but it's
like understated and elegant. You know
what I mean? If you look at like all the
top tier Vimmers like the Primogen, um
their configs don't look crazy. They
don't have these 20 paints going. And
that's cuz like it just looks more like
you care about the work rather than the
aesthetic. Like I don't want to be
looking at someone's config and think
like, "Wow, that guy will do literally
anything to not go outside. He's sitting
around changing his background color all
day in order to avoid like some basic
social interaction." Um, and uh before
you rage at me in the comments, I was
once there, too. So, I'm just trying to
help you out. And then finally, uh, just
the theme that I'm using, I kind of
think you should use, I mean, there's
plenty of good themes. Everyone has
their own preferences. I kind of like a
neutral one. Um, things like Cad Puchin
or Nord or Groove Box are just like
they're classic, but they're kind of
colorful. And I kind of like the look of
just like black and white, but you have
like small color accents. Uh, so the
theme that I'm using is called vague. I
think actually it's defined in a
colors.lua. Lua. Yeah, it's by Vague 2K.
Plugin's called Vague. Um, and then I
just set the background to to nothing.
And that's because sometimes I want to
have like a window behind Vim for some
kind of like interesting aesthetic
effect. So, if we have like a little
island, the window is actually
transparent. My Vim window, I mean. So,
what I could do is open this up. And now
I have like a cool little island thing
going. And, you know, I could pop into
Zen mode, open up some kind of file. You
can barely see it, but um barely see the
code. But I think that's there's cool
potential there if you wanted some kind
of animated background because at one
point I had some kind of like cool laser
going in here and I could point at
things.
But yeah, hopefully you got something
from

