Title: What even is this vim command
Video ID: aVtTg8lXIxg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aVtTg8lXIxg

Unfortunately, I heavily click baited
you. The syntax to time travel and Vim
isn't this. It's actually that it's a
really kind of useless thing, but it's a
it's a cool one. I basically never use
it, but maybe there's some um there's
some extra stuff to it that I failed to
consider. You can type earlier or later.
I'm going to type earlier. And then an
amount of seconds, days,
um hours, any any time duration. So, if
I type 40s, that'll take me 40 seconds
back in time to this where um not sure
really what I was doing. And then if I
want to go back later, I can type later
40 days, which will take me to the end
of the file history. Um I don't know who
in their right mind would travel around
in version history through time. Maybe
there's some kind of weird workflow
where you're like looking at a timer all
the time between writes. But for me, I
just use undo and redo. But there is a
little bit more to it than that because
if you look at the help page for
earlier, instead of just traveling by
time like they show here, you can also
travel by rights, which is kind of a
weird thing. Um I the file I'm in
doesn't have rights. It's just like a
nameless file. So,
uh, I can't really do that. But if you
want to travel back and forth by number
of
rights and then later, of course. And
then there's also this G+, go to the
newer state and you can you can repeat
it. Um, so that's kind of an interesting
thing. I heard about that in a uh in a
Luke Smith video a while ago. It always
stuck with me because it it is like
literal time travel. And it's really
interesting that Vim has like an
internal timer mechanism, but yeah, it
seems pretty useless to me. Maybe
um let me know if you have some kind of
workflow with this cuz I'd be shocked if
you could keep track of changes over
time like that. This has saved me once
or twice, I will say. Um, when for some
reason I'm not using git like an idiot
and the undo tree is like too long and
confusing and I don't want to do a 100 U
and I just want to do 10 earlier earlier
10. I've done that before, but other
than that, yeah, pretty niche one.

